
This all began as a passion project between colleagues who collectively discovered they all faced the same challenges with food, though solutions to these problems did not appear to be accessible to the average Australian on an average income. Hypothetical means of resolving the problems we were all facing started arising in conversation more frequently until they started sounding very realistic, especially given our already existing skill sets.
Meta Tier Solutions was already operating as a successful support company providing affordable trouble shooting, maintenance and repair to IT systems, software and hardware within businesses and residences.
We simply decided to re-direct our focus from equipment to people and using our expertise to realize this concept, we stood a chance at providing not just ourselves, but families and individuals everywhere an accessible and affordable, better way of living.
The plan was simple, create an app that fills a gap in the market that we believed could positively impact the lives of many people. To be sure we were on the right track we got stuck into research, not just around nutrition but at the very base of the issue.
One thing is true for all of us, as we move forward through an ever-changing world, conveniently and affordably eating healthy can often feel like fighting a losing battle. We have all encountered that same feeling coming home from our day and thinking “I just can’t be bothered to cook” or “I forgot to pick something up for dinner.” 
This often leads to a quick run for fast food or simply having to cook less than healthy options as they are often the least time consuming and the most affordable way to feed yourself or your family.
Surveys conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics’ during 2017 and 2018 (https://www1.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/Overweight-and-Obesity) showed that 67% of Australian adults were overweight or obese and a staggering 24% of Australian children aged between 5-17 were also recorded as being overweight or obese.
Products like Dinnerly (https://dinnerly.com.au/) and Hello Fresh (https://www.hellofresh.com.au/) are trying to remove having to plan, shop and prep for meals, only they haven’t managed to hit what would be considered an affordable price point for the average Australian family.
Meta Foods is looking to fill that gap by working alongside local supermarkets like Coles and Woolworths by integrating their pre-existing “click and collect” systems into the web application. 
Rather than browsing their website or walking down their isles trying to find something vegetarian, something vegan or something high in fibre, using the filter system in the application you will be able to see what meals will be appropriate for you and/or your families dietary needs. 
From here it is as simple as selecting the meals and the rest is left up to us. The ingredients will be put into the “click and collect” shopping cart of your choosing (Coles or Woolworths) and then sent through to the locale selected based on your post code.

One of the first things that was discussed was the acquisition of the Coles and Woolworths checkout api and access to their products and pricing. Initially this was thought to be a relatively simple task as it would not require any resources from their end. This was the projects first roadblock.
This became the starting point because if the team were denied access to the api, the rest of the application simply would not be possible without taking some potentially invasive methods on board.
After our first interaction with these supermarket giants, it was advised that a working prototype would need to be developed and presented first. While this was no surprise to us it very much left the team in a position of “all in” that was trying to be avoided.
Development has begun with no certainty that Coles and Woolworths would want to be on board. It was decided that even with just one of them the project could still achieve its goals.
Luckily, outside of this integration, everything was able to be developed in-house without requiring resources or effort of anything external.
The front-end of the application is quite typical being a web-based application.  The web page uses PHP to interact with an SQL database to enable users to sign up and log in and sustain a session that houses data like their food profiles (members created within the account that keep each person’s dietary requirements and goals), previous purchases and orders. 
Getting the above-mentioned foundations in place will be the easiest part of the development process. Creating the data for users to access like the menu, meals, nutritional information presented itself as being a monumental task. Each meal has to be able to be displayed to the user based on the filters applied by the food profiles they have created. This meant that
